So let's configure rockety show IP protocols shows that you know writing protocols are currently enabled
on the router so Rhonda BGP 65000 into neighbor 8 8 8 to 1 remote autonomy system sixty five thousand
one notice we see that a BGP relationship has come up on both sides.
So show IPB GP neighbors
scrolling up we can see that a neighbor relationship is established now BGP is different to other routing
protocols.
If you see an active relationship that means it's not working.
You need to see stablished B.G. people go through different states.
If you see a neighbor relationship of idle or active or anything else apart from established it means
you have a problem.
You must see stablished the BJP state for a working and liberation ship is established.
So make sure you look for established we can see a BGP neighbor is 8 8 8 2 2 autonomous system number
65000 to.
It's an external BGP relationship.
In other words it's using BGP.
We are in a different autonomous system to our neighbor.
Again make sure that you look for this.
We are using BGP version 4.
That's the version of BGP that we currently use.
It's kind of like always a version to a whisper version 3 but the current release of BGP version for
remote broader ID is to to to to to to to the Rodda ID selected in a similar way to always PFM the GOP.
It's the IP address or the loopback interface.
A lot of information is shown in that command
the big thing to look for is show I be BGP neighbors.
Is that the neighbor relationship is established.
So state is established now BJP also has the command to show IP BGP summary what you should see at the
end here is that it's blank.
If you see a word like Idol or active It means you have a problem.
It needs to be blank and you'll see something like state prefixes received.
So how many rants are you receiving from your neighbor.
And how long has that neighbor relationship been up.
We can see we've got a neighbor to direct it to the to TV version of BGP version for Tynemouth system
number of the neighbors 65000 to packet trace.
It is a simulator.
It's not perfect but it's good enough for CCMA.
So some information here won't be exactly the same as a real router but it's enough for exam preparation.
So on this router let's advertise the lookback so network to to to to to to to the mosque should be
I-Slash 32 mosque.
And we can also advertise the network as well as the 15 network noticed she must set the mosque here
exactly the way it appears in the writing table.
So the two network is using a slash 32 8 network is a slash 24 15 network is a slash 24.
So again when we look at the BGP configuration slash 24 here Sless 24 is huge here to show IP BGP notice
we are learning routes through BGP.
Are learning about the 8 2 8 8 0 network and the 15 that wondered 1.0 network BGP has its own writing
table in addition to the IP writing table.
So we have the stented IP writing table and noticed we are learning about 15 not one that one touch
zero.
So we should be able to ping 15 wondered wondered one which we can
but not we have the stented IP writing table but we also have the BGP writing table which contains networks
that have been locally advertised.
That means that we used the network command or redistribution on the local router to advertise that
network into the BGP routing table.
This network was advertised by our own neighbor 8 8 8 2.
This network was advertised both by the local router as well as by the neighbor.
You'll learn about weights and other BGP metrics such as local preference and made or metric in more
advanced BGP courses.
But for CCMA you don't need to worry too much about that.
But notice the weight here is this value which is very high compared to this.
And that's because this network was advertised by the local router this network was advertised by another
router.
The higher the weight the more believable or the more reliable a route as is often the case we believe
ourselves more than others.
So noodles for this network this is the best route greater than sign we believe ourselves more than
we believe others and that's because it has a higher weight.
So the local route takes precedence over a remote advertisement.